Hi there.
Previously, you learned how an incident
handler's journal is used for documenting the 5 W's of
an incident: who, what, where,
when, and why an incident occurred.
In this section, we'll continue our
discussion on documentation by exploring the different
types of documentation, the importance
of effective documentation, and we'll finish off
with the discussion on documentation tools.
Documentation is any form of
recorded content that is used for
a specific purpose.
This can be audio, digital, or
handwritten instructions, and even videos.
There is no set industry standard for
documentation, so
many organizations set their
own documentation practices.
Regardless, documentation is
meant to provide instruction and guidance
on a specific topic.
There are also many
types of documentation,
and you may already be familiar with
some of them from the previous lessons.
These include playbooks, incident
handler's journals, policies, plans,
and final reports.
Remember, there isn't an industry standard
for documentation, which means that one
organization's documentation practices may
look completely different than another's.
Often, organizations will tailor their
documentation practices according to their needs
and legal requirements. They may add, remove,
or even merge documentation types.
Have you ever purchased a product, and
didn't know how to use it, and consulted
the product manual for instructions on
how to do something like turn it on?
Congrats, you've used
documentation to solve an issue.
Previously, you've learned about how
playbooks keep business operations safe,
and in incident response, playbooks
work similar to a product manual.
As a refresher,
a playbook is a manual that provides
details about any operational action.
You'll learn more about playbooks later.
Let's revisit that product manual example.
Have you ever consulted a product manual
for help and found yourself confused with
the instructions and
unable to get the help you needed?
Whether it's had to do with unclear
visuals and instructions or
a confusing layout, you weren't able to
use the documentation to solve your issue.
This is an example of
ineffective documentation.
Effective documentation reduces
uncertainty and confusion.
This is critical during a security
incident when tensions are high and
urgent response is required.
As a security professional,
you'll be using and
creating documentation regularly.
It's essential that the documentation you
use and produce is clear, consistent,
and accurate, so that you and your team
can respond swiftly and decisively.
Word processors are a common
way to document.
Some popular tools to use are Google Docs,
OneNote, Evernote, and Notepad++.
Ticketing systems like Jira can also be
used to document and track incidents.
Lastly, Google Sheets,
audio recorders, cameras, and
handwritten notes are also
tools you can use to document.
Our discussion on documentation
has only just begun.
Soon, you'll use your incident handler's
journal to put your documentation
skills to work.